[DOCS-15226] Update GPU Fleet Explorer overview and use case-driven views (#38541)
DataDog/documentation: hugo/content/en/gpu_monitoring/fleet.md

## Overview

> [GPU Fleet Explorer][0] provides a detailed breakdown across AI infrastructure (like GPU devices, hosts, or Ray clusters) and AI workloads (Pods, Kube Containers, or Training Runs) for a specified time frame. Use this page to uncover provisioning inefficiencies and workload performance optimizations through rich resource telemetry covering GPU utilization, host-level metrics, and costs. This page also surfaces Datadog's proactive real-time detection of any issues impacting your fleet and workloads, alongside guidance on how to remediate those issues, to help you maximize the value of your GPU spend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GPU Fleet Explorer][0] provides a detailed breakdown across AI infrastructure (such as GPU devices, hosts, or Ray clusters) and AI workloads (such as pods, Kubernetes containers, or training runs) for a specified time frame. This page helps you uncover provisioning inefficiencies and workload performance optimizations through resource telemetry, including GPU utilization, host-level metrics, and costs. It also surfaces Datadog's real-time detection of issues impacting your fleet and workloads, with guidance on how to remediate them.
```
Trimmed down this section to improve flow and remove marketing language.
Question: by `Kube Containers`, did you mean `Kubernetes containers`? I changed the casing on this and `training runs` since we don't have precedent for capitalizing them elsewhere in the docs.

Author: :+1: Trimmed the wording as suggested. Kept `Kube Containers` and `Training Runs` capitalized though — they're the actual entity names shown in the product side nav (see the sidenav image/note elsewhere on this page), so keeping them as proper nouns matches the UI.

## Detect issues with out-of-the-box monitors

> Datadog provides several out-of-the-box (OOTB) monitor templates that detect common GPU issues in real time, including temperature spikes, power cap throttling, unmet GPU requests, XID errors, ECC errors, bursty workloads, and idle devices. You can customize any monitor's thresholds to fit your organization's needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog provides several out-of-the-box (OOTB) monitor templates that detect common GPU issues in real time, including:

- Temperature spikes
- Power cap throttling
- Unmet GPU requests
- XID errors
- ECC errors
- Bursty workloads
- Idle devices

You can customize any monitor's thresholds to fit your organization's needs.

```
Suggest breaking this into bullet points for better readability.

To access these templates, click the {{< ui >}}Monitors{{< /ui >}} dropdown in the top-right corner of the page.

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/fleet-ootb-monitors.jpg" alt="Monitors dropdown in the top-right corner of the GPU Fleet page, showing OOTB monitor templates for Temperature, Power Cap Throttling, Unmet GPU Requests, Critical XID Errors, General XID Errors, ECC Errors, Bursty Workloads, and Idle Devices" style="width:40%;" >}}

## Break down your fleet by any tag

> GPU Fleet Explorer gives you visibility from your AI workloads down to the AI infrastructure they rely on, letting you pivot between workload entities like pods and training runs, and infrastructure entities like devices, hosts, and clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GPU Fleet Explorer gives you visibility from your AI workloads down to the underlying AI infrastructure. You can switch between workload entities like pods and training runs, and infrastructure entities such as devices, hosts, and clusters.
```
`Pivot` reads as jargon here. Suggest changing to `switch` and breaking the sentence up.

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/gpu-fleet-sidenav.jpg" alt="Side navigation bar showing AI Infrastructure entities (Devices, Hosts, Kube Clusters, Ray Clusters) and AI Workloads entities (Pods, Kube Containers, Training Runs)" style="width:30%;" >}}

Use the filter dropdowns at the top of the page to filter by a specific {{< ui >}}Provider{{< /ui >}}, {{< ui >}}Device Type{{< /ui >}}, {{< ui >}}Cluster{{< /ui >}}, {{< ui >}}Region{{< /ui >}}, {{< ui >}}Service{{< /ui >}}, {{< ui >}}Data Center{{< /ui >}}, {{< ui >}}Environment{{< /ui >}}, or {{< ui >}}Team{{< /ui >}}.

You can also {{< ui >}}Search{{< /ui >}} or {{< ui >}}Group{{< /ui >}} by other tags using the search and group-by fields. For example, you can group by {{< ui >}}Service{{< /ui >}} to view a row in the table for each unique service. Click the {{< ui >}}>{{< /ui >}} button next to any entry to see the devices for that service.

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/host_row_expansion-2.png" alt="GPU Fleet table showing services with their device types, with the row expand button highlighted" style="width:90%;" >}}

> **Note**: Kube Clusters, Pods, and Kube Containers options in the side navigation are only available if you use Kubernetes.

Reviewer: Should this go directly under the screenshot of the side nav on line 26?

Author: Good call — moved the Note directly under the side nav screenshot.

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/filters_and_groupings-3.png" alt="Filter dropdowns and Group by selector at the top of the GPU Fleet page" style="width:90%;" >}}

## Use case-driven views and recommendations
GPU Monitoring's Fleet Explorer page provides two dedicated use case-driven views:

- **Provisioning**: Allocate capacity and manage quotas.
- **Performance**: Optimize workload efficiency and throughput.

### Provisioning

> The {{< ui >}}Provisioning{{< /ui >}} tab detects any hardware health issues impacting the allocation of your devices to workloads and provides guidance to all users, regardless of their hardware familiarity, on how to remediate those issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{< ui >}}Provisioning{{< /ui >}} tab detects any hardware health issues impacting the allocation of your devices to workloads and provides guidance on how to remediate them.
```

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/provisioning-tab-3.jpg" alt="The Provisioning use case-driven view" style="width:90%;" >}}

For each detected issue, Datadog recommends step-by-step remediation actions to help you resolve it.

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/critical-xid-recommendation.jpg" alt="Recommended remediation actions for a critical XID error" style="width:60%;" >}}

> #### Summary graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Provisioning summary graph
```

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/summary-graph.jpg" alt="Summary graph showing Provisioned Devices, Allocated Devices, and Active Devices breakdowns" style="width:90%;" >}}

Expand this section below to see a table of the available options and what they represent.

{{% collapse-content title="See full list of Provisioning summary graph options" level="h4" expanded=false id="provisioning-summary-graph-table" %}}
| Option              | Definition                                                |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Provisioned Devices  | Breakdown of provisioned devices and active devices.       |
| Allocated Devices    | Breakdown of available devices by allocated vs. unallocated. |
| Active Devices       | Breakdown of allocated devices by active vs. idle.          |
{{% /collapse-content %}}

### Performance

> The {{< ui >}}Performance{{< /ui >}} tab detects any hardware health or workload issues that are stalling the workloads running on your GPU devices and provides a single source of truth and guidance to platform engineers and AI/ML teams on how to remediate those issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{< ui >}}Performance{{< /ui >}} tab detects any hardware health or workload issues that are stalling the workloads running on your GPU devices. This provides a single source of truth and guidance to platform engineers and AI/ML teams on how to remediate those issues.
```

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/performance-tab-3.jpg" alt="The Performance use case-driven view" style="width:90%;" >}}

For each detected issue, Datadog recommends step-by-step remediation actions to help you resolve it.

{{< img src="gpu_monitoring/power-cap-recommendation.jpg" alt="Recommended remediation actions for a GPU power cap throttling issue" style="width:60%;" >}}

> #### Summary graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Performance summary graph
```

| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU Util            | % of time the CPU spent running user space processes.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Host Memory         | % of usable memory in use.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| GPU Util            | Average % of time each streaming multiprocessor was active (lower values indicate idle time).                                                                                                                         |
| GPU Saturation      | Measures how fully the GPU's parallel execution capacity is being used during the time frame (average ratio of active warps to the maximum warps supported per streaming multiprocessor across all SMs).            |

> | GPU Memory          | Ratio (%) of GPU memory used to total GPU memory limit.                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CPU Util            | Percentage of time the CPU spent running user space processes.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Host Memory         | Percentage of usable memory in use.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| GPU Util            | Average percentage of time each streaming multiprocessor was active (lower values indicate idle time).                                                                                                                         |
| GPU Saturation      | Measures how fully the GPU's parallel execution capacity is being used during the time frame (average ratio of active warps to the maximum warps supported per streaming multiprocessor across all SMs).            |
| GPU Memory          | Percentage of GPU memory used to total GPU memory limit.                                                                                                                                                                |
```
Replace `%` with words per style guide.

| NVLink RX                | Total RX of all NVLINK links.                                                                                                                                                                                           | `gpu.nvlink.throughput.raw.rx`                     |                   | ✓               |
| NVLink TX                | Total TX of all NVLINK links.                                                                                                                                                                                           | `gpu.nvlink.throughput.raw.tx`                     |                   | ✓               |
| Power                    | Power usage for the GPU device.<br>**Note**: On GA100 and previous architectures, this represents the instantaneous power at that moment.<br>For newer architectures, it represents the average power draw (Watts) over one second. | `gpu.power.usage`                                  |                   | ✓               |

> | Temperature              | Temperature of a GPU device.                                                                                                                                                                                            | `gpu.temperature`                                  |                   | ✓               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Total Devices            | GPU devices with Datadog's GPU Monitoring correctly configured and reporting metrics.                                                                                                                                    | `kubernetes_state.node.gpu_capacity`               | ✓                 | — |
| Kubernetes Available     | Healthy GPU devices that are powered on and available for allocation, according to the Kubernetes orchestrator.                                                                                                          | `kubernetes_state.node.gpu_allocatable`            | ✓                 | — |
| Allocated Devices        | (Only available if using Kubernetes) Count of devices that have been allocated to a workload.                                                                                                                           | `gpu.device.total`                                 | ✓                 | — |
| Unallocated Devices      | Count of devices not allocated and available for use during time frame.                                                                                                                                                 |                                                    | ✓                 | — |
| Active Devices           | Count of devices that are actively used for a workload or are busy. If using Kubernetes: count of allocated devices that are actively used for a workload.                                                                   | `gpu.gr_engine_active`                             | ✓                 | — |
| Idle Devices             | GPU devices allocated to workloads but not doing any work during the time frame. A device is considered idle if `gpu.gr_engine_active` equals 0.                                                                        | `gpu.gr_engine_active`                             | ✓                 | — |
| CPU Utilization          | Percentage of time the CPU spent running user space processes.                                                                                                                                       | `system.cpu.user`                                  | — | ✓               |
| Host Memory              | Percentage of usable memory in use.                                                                                                                                                                                    | `system.mem.pct_usable`                            | — | ✓               |
| GPU Utilization          | Average percentage of time each streaming multiprocessor was active (lower values indicate idle time).                                                                                                                           | `gpu.sm_active`                                    | — | ✓               |
| GPU Saturation           | Measures how fully the GPU's parallel execution capacity is being used during the time frame (average ratio of active warps to the maximum warps supported per streaming multiprocessor across all SMs).                 | `gpu.sm_occupancy`                                 | — | ✓               |
| GPU Memory               | Percentage of GPU memory used to total GPU memory limit.                                                                                                                                                                 | `100 - (gpu.memory.free / gpu.memory.limit * 100)` | — | ✓               |
| PCIe RX Throughput       | Bytes received through PCI from the GPU device per second.                                                                                                                                                              | `gpu.pci.throughput.rx`                            | — | ✓               |
| PCIe TX Throughput       | Bytes transmitted through PCI to the GPU device per second.                                                                                                                                                             | `gpu.pci.throughput.tx`                            | — | ✓               |
| NVLink RX                | Total RX of all NVLINK links.                                                                                                                                                                                           | `gpu.nvlink.throughput.raw.rx`                     | — | ✓               |
| NVLink TX                | Total TX of all NVLINK links.                                                                                                                                                                                           | `gpu.nvlink.throughput.raw.tx`                     | — | ✓               |
| Power                    | Power usage for the GPU device.<br>**Note**: On GA100 and previous architectures, this represents the instantaneous power at that moment.<br>For newer architectures, it represents the average power draw (Watts) over one second. | `gpu.power.usage`                                  | — | ✓               |
| Temperature              | Temperature of a GPU device.                                                                                                                                                                                            | `gpu.temperature`                                  | — | ✓               |
```
Update n/a cells with dashes, replace `%` with words per style guide.

Datadog actively surveys your infrastructure and detects installation gaps that may diminish the value you get out of GPU Monitoring. In this modal, you can find installation update recommendations to get the optimal value of GPU Monitoring. For example, making sure your hosts have the [latest version][1] of the Datadog Agent installed, installing the latest version of the NVIDIA driver, and checking for misconfigured hosts.

> **Note**: Do not use Datadog Agent v7.82.0, which can cause unexpected kernel panics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-danger">Do not use Datadog Agent v7.82.0, which can cause unexpected kernel panics.</div>
```
Suggest changing this to an alert since it could break things if not followed.
